README.md, before:

# VideoPackagingFast

A cross-platform video processing application that helps content creators generate social media content from video files. This application works on both Windows and Mac.

## Features

- Extract audio from video files
- Transcribe audio to text using Whisper (when available)
- Generate social media content using OpenAI or Anthropic APIs
- Cross-platform compatibility (Windows and Mac)
- Modern and intuitive user interface
- Customizable themes
- **No Python installation required** - runs as a standalone executable

## Running the Application

### Option 1: Download and Run the Pre-built Executable (For Beginners)

**No Python installation required!** The pre-built executable includes everything needed to run the application.

#### Windows Users

1. **Download the latest release**
   - Go to the [Releases](https://github.com/IsaiahDupree/VideoPackagingFast/releases) page
   - Download the `VideoProcessor_Windows.zip` file
   - Extract the ZIP file to a location on your computer (e.g., Desktop or Documents folder)

2. **Run the application**
   - Navigate to the extracted folder
   - Double-click on `VideoProcessor.exe` to launch the application
   - If Windows SmartScreen appears, click "More info" and then "Run anyway" (this happens because the app isn't signed with a certificate)

3. **First-time setup**
   - When you first run the application, you'll need to enter your API key
   - Click on the "Settings" tab
   - Enter your OpenAI or Anthropic API key
   - Click "Save Settings"

#### Mac Users

1. **Download the latest release**
   - Go to the [Releases](https://github.com/IsaiahDupree/VideoPackagingFast/releases) page
   - Download the `VideoProcessor_Mac.zip` file
   - Extract the ZIP file to a location on your computer

2. **Run the application**
   - Navigate to the extracted folder
   - Right-click on `VideoProcessor.app` and select "Open"
   - Click "Open" when prompted (this is necessary because the app isn't signed with an Apple certificate)

3. **First-time setup**
   - When you first run the application, you'll need to enter your API key
   - Click on the "Settings" tab
   - Enter your OpenAI or Anthropic API key
   - Click "Save Settings"

### Option 2: Run from Source (For Developers)

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/IsaiahDupree/VideoPackagingFast.git
   cd VideoPackagingFast
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Run the application**

   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

### Option 3: Build an Executable (Advanced)

#### Windows

1. Run the complete build script that handles all dependencies:

   ```bash
   .\build_windows_complete.bat
   ```

   This script will:
   - Create a virtual environment
   - Install all required dependencies
   - Download FFmpeg automatically
   - Build a standalone executable with PyInstaller

2. The executable will be in the `dist/VideoProcessor` folder

3. To create a distributable package:
   - Copy the entire `dist/VideoProcessor` folder
   - Rename it to `VideoProcessor_Windows`
   - Zip the folder to create `VideoProcessor_Windows.zip`

#### macOS

1. Run the complete build script:

   ```bash
   chmod +x build_mac_complete.sh
   ./build_mac_complete.sh
   ```

   This script will:
   - Create a virtual environment
   - Install all required dependencies
   - Download FFmpeg automatically
   - Build a standalone application with PyInstaller

2. The application will be in the `dist` folder as `VideoProcessor.app`

3. To create a distributable package:
   - Create a folder named `VideoProcessor_Mac`
   - Move `VideoProcessor.app` into this folder
   - Zip the folder to create `VideoProcessor_Mac.zip`

## Running on Computers Without Python

VideoPackagingFast is designed to work on computers that don't have Python installed. This is possible because:

1. **Self-contained Application**: The pre-built executable includes a Python interpreter and all necessary libraries
2. **Bundled FFmpeg**: FFmpeg is included in the package, so users don't need to install it separately
3. **No External Dependencies**: Everything needed to run the application is contained within the executable

### For End Users

If you're an end user who just wants to use the application:

1. Simply download the pre-built executable for your platform (Windows or Mac)
2. Extract the ZIP file
3. Run the application directly - no installation required!

### For Developers Creating Distributable Packages

The build scripts (`build_windows_complete.bat` and `build_mac_complete.sh`) are designed to create fully standalone executables that will work on computers without Python installed. Here's what makes this possible:

1. **Bundled Python Interpreter**: PyInstaller includes a Python interpreter with the executable
2. **Bundled Dependencies**: All Python packages are included in the executable
3. **Bundled FFmpeg**: The FFmpeg binary is included, eliminating the need for separate installation
4. **No External Requirements**: Users don't need to install anything to run the application

This approach ensures that end users can simply download and run the application without worrying about dependencies or installation procedures.

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### Application Won't Start

- **Windows**: Make sure you have the Visual C++ Redistributable installed. You can download it from [Microsoft's website](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-170).
- **Mac**: If you get a message that the app is damaged, try running `xattr -cr /path/to/VideoProcessor.app` in Terminal.

#### "FFmpeg Not Found" Error

- Make sure FFmpeg is installed correctly
- For pre-built executables, FFmpeg should be included, but if you encounter this error:
  - **Windows**: Download FFmpeg from [ffmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) and add it to your PATH
  - **macOS**: Install FFmpeg using `brew install ffmpeg`

#### API Key Issues

- Verify that you've entered the correct API key in the Settings tab
- Check your internet connection
- Ensure your API key has sufficient credits/quota

#### Processing Takes Too Long

- Transcription and content generation can take time, especially for longer videos
- Consider using a shorter video for testing
- Check that your computer meets the minimum system requirements

### Getting Help

If you encounter any issues not covered here, please:

1. Check the [Issues](https://github.com/IsaiahDupree/VideoPackagingFast/issues) page to see if your problem has been reported
2. Create a new issue with details about your problem if needed

## System Requirements

### Minimum Requirements

- **OS**: Windows 10/11 or macOS 10.15+
- **Processor**: Dual-core 2.0 GHz or better
- **Memory**: 4 GB RAM (8 GB recommended)
- **Storage**: 500 MB free space
- **Internet**: Required for API access

### Recommended Requirements

- **OS**: Windows 11 or macOS 12+
- **Processor**: Quad-core 2.5 GHz or better
- **Memory**: 8 GB RAM or more
- **Storage**: 1 GB free space
- **Internet**: Broadband connection

## Dependencies

- Python 3.8 to 3.10 (Python 3.8.x recommended for best compatibility)
- FFmpeg installed and available in PATH
- OpenAI or Anthropic API key

### Python Version Compatibility

This application has been tested and is known to work with:

- Python 3.8.x (recommended)
- Python 3.9.x
- Python 3.10.x

Python 3.11+ may work but has not been extensively tested with all dependencies.

If you encounter issues with PySimpleGUI or other dependencies, try using Python 3.8.10 specifically, which is the development environment version.

### FFmpeg Setup

#### Windows

1. Download FFmpeg from [ffmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html)
2. Extract the files to a folder (e.g., `C:\ffmpeg`)
3. Add the `bin` folder to your PATH environment variable

#### macOS

```bash
brew install ffmpeg
```

## Configuration

The application requires an API key for OpenAI or Anthropic to generate social media content. You can set this up in two ways:

1. **Environment Variables**:
   - Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` or `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` in your environment variables

2. **In-App Configuration**:
   - Enter your API key in the Settings tab of the application

## Usage

1. Launch the application
2. Select a video file to process
3. Choose an output directory
4. Click "Process Video"
5. The application will:
   - Extract audio from the video
   - Transcribe the audio to text
   - Generate social media content based on the transcript
   - Save all outputs to the specified directory

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Add stable build script with fixed PySimpleGUI version and update README

README.md, after:

# VideoPackagingFast

A cross-platform video processing application that helps content creators generate social media content from video files. This application works on both Windows and Mac.

## Features

- Extract audio from video files
- Transcribe audio to text using Whisper (when available)
- Generate social media content using OpenAI or Anthropic APIs
- Cross-platform compatibility (Windows and Mac)
- Modern and intuitive user interface
- Customizable themes
- **No Python installation required** - runs as a standalone executable

## Running the Application

### Option 1: Download and Run the Pre-built Executable (For Beginners)

**No Python installation required!** The pre-built executable includes everything needed to run the application.

#### Windows Users

1. **Download the latest release**
   - Go to the [Releases](https://github.com/IsaiahDupree/VideoPackagingFast/releases) page
   - Download the `VideoProcessor_Windows.zip` file
   - Extract the ZIP file to a location on your computer (e.g., Desktop or Documents folder)

2. **Run the application**
   - Navigate to the extracted folder
   - Double-click on `VideoProcessor.exe` to launch the application
   - If Windows SmartScreen appears, click "More info" and then "Run anyway" (this happens because the app isn't signed with a certificate)

3. **First-time setup**
   - When you first run the application, you'll need to enter your API key
   - Click on the "Settings" tab
   - Enter your OpenAI or Anthropic API key
   - Click "Save Settings"

#### Mac Users

1. **Download the latest release**
   - Go to the [Releases](https://github.com/IsaiahDupree/VideoPackagingFast/releases) page
   - Download the `VideoProcessor_Mac.zip` file
   - Extract the ZIP file to a location on your computer

2. **Run the application**
   - Navigate to the extracted folder
   - Right-click on `VideoProcessor.app` and select "Open"
   - Click "Open" when prompted (this is necessary because the app isn't signed with an Apple certificate)

3. **First-time setup**
   - When you first run the application, you'll need to enter your API key
   - Click on the "Settings" tab
   - Enter your OpenAI or Anthropic API key
   - Click "Save Settings"

### Option 2: Run from Source (For Developers)

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/IsaiahDupree/VideoPackagingFast.git
   cd VideoPackagingFast
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. **Run the application**

   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

### Option 3: Build an Executable (Advanced)

#### Windows

1. Run the stable build script that handles all dependencies:

   ```bash
   .\build_windows_stable.bat
   ```

   This script will:
   - Create a virtual environment
   - Install a stable version of PySimpleGUI (4.60.4)
   - Install all required dependencies
   - Download FFmpeg automatically
   - Build a standalone executable with PyInstaller

2. The executable will be in the `dist/VideoProcessor` folder

3. To create a distributable package:
   - Copy the entire `dist/VideoProcessor` folder
   - Rename it to `VideoProcessor_Windows`
   - Zip the folder to create `VideoProcessor_Windows.zip`

#### macOS

1. Run the complete build script:

   ```bash
   chmod +x build_mac_complete.sh
   ./build_mac_complete.sh
   ```

   This script will:
   - Create a virtual environment
   - Install all required dependencies
   - Download FFmpeg automatically
   - Build a standalone application with PyInstaller

2. The application will be in the `dist` folder as `VideoProcessor.app`

3. To create a distributable package:
   - Create a folder named `VideoProcessor_Mac`
   - Move `VideoProcessor.app` into this folder
   - Zip the folder to create `VideoProcessor_Mac.zip`

## Running on Computers Without Python

VideoPackagingFast is designed to work on computers that don't have Python installed. This is possible because:

1. **Self-contained Application**: The pre-built executable includes a Python interpreter and all necessary libraries
2. **Bundled FFmpeg**: FFmpeg is included in the package, so users don't need to install it separately
3. **No External Dependencies**: Everything needed to run the application is contained within the executable

### For End Users

If you're an end user who just wants to use the application:

1. Simply download the pre-built executable for your platform (Windows or Mac)
2. Extract the ZIP file
3. Run the application directly - no installation required!

### For Developers Creating Distributable Packages

The build scripts (`build_windows_complete.bat` and `build_mac_complete.sh`) are designed to create fully standalone executables that will work on computers without Python installed. Here's what makes this possible:

1. **Bundled Python Interpreter**: PyInstaller includes a Python interpreter with the executable
2. **Bundled Dependencies**: All Python packages are included in the executable
3. **Bundled FFmpeg**: The FFmpeg binary is included, eliminating the need for separate installation
4. **No External Requirements**: Users don't need to install anything to run the application

This approach ensures that end users can simply download and run the application without worrying about dependencies or installation procedures.

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### Application Won't Start

- **Windows**: Make sure you have the Visual C++ Redistributable installed. You can download it from [Microsoft's website](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist?view=msvc-170).
- **Mac**: If you get a message that the app is damaged, try running `xattr -cr /path/to/VideoProcessor.app` in Terminal.

#### "FFmpeg Not Found" Error

- Make sure FFmpeg is installed correctly
- For pre-built executables, FFmpeg should be included, but if you encounter this error:
  - **Windows**: Download FFmpeg from [ffmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) and add it to your PATH
  - **macOS**: Install FFmpeg using `brew install ffmpeg`

#### API Key Issues

- Verify that you've entered the correct API key in the Settings tab
- Check your internet connection
- Ensure your API key has sufficient credits/quota

#### Processing Takes Too Long

- Transcription and content generation can take time, especially for longer videos
- Consider using a shorter video for testing
- Check that your computer meets the minimum system requirements

### Getting Help

If you encounter any issues not covered here, please:

1. Check the [Issues](https://github.com/IsaiahDupree/VideoPackagingFast/issues) page to see if your problem has been reported
2. Create a new issue with details about your problem if needed

## System Requirements

### Minimum Requirements

- **OS**: Windows 10/11 or macOS 10.15+
- **Processor**: Dual-core 2.0 GHz or better
- **Memory**: 4 GB RAM (8 GB recommended)
- **Storage**: 500 MB free space
- **Internet**: Required for API access

### Recommended Requirements

- **OS**: Windows 11 or macOS 12+
- **Processor**: Quad-core 2.5 GHz or better
- **Memory**: 8 GB RAM or more
- **Storage**: 1 GB free space
- **Internet**: Broadband connection

## Dependencies

- Python 3.8 to 3.10 (Python 3.8.x recommended for best compatibility)
- FFmpeg installed and available in PATH
- OpenAI or Anthropic API key

### Python Version Compatibility

This application has been tested and is known to work with:

- Python 3.8.x (recommended)
- Python 3.9.x
- Python 3.10.x

Python 3.11+ may work but has not been extensively tested with all dependencies.

If you encounter issues with PySimpleGUI or other dependencies, try using Python 3.8.10 specifically, which is the development environment version.

### FFmpeg Setup

#### Windows

1. Download FFmpeg from [ffmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html)
2. Extract the files to a folder (e.g., `C:\ffmpeg`)
3. Add the `bin` folder to your PATH environment variable

#### macOS

```bash
brew install ffmpeg
```

## Configuration

The application requires an API key for OpenAI or Anthropic to generate social media content. You can set this up in two ways:

1. **Environment Variables**:
   - Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` or `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` in your environment variables

2. **In-App Configuration**:
   - Enter your API key in the Settings tab of the application

## Usage

1. Launch the application
2. Select a video file to process
3. Choose an output directory
4. Click "Process Video"
5. The application will:
   - Extract audio from the video
   - Transcribe the audio to text
   - Generate social media content based on the transcript
   - Save all outputs to the specified directory

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
